---
layout: post
title:  "KumuluzEE 3.0.0 beta 2 is out"
date:   2018-08-10
author: urbim
categories: [Product, Announcement, Developers]
tags: [KumuluzEE, Java EE, Microservices]
---

We have entered the second phase of KumuluzEE Beta testing. The v3.0.0-beta.2 prerelease of KumuluzEE framework
continues to improve on the already stable v3.0.0-beta.1 prerelease.

<!--more-->

The brand new feature in this prerelease is the support of the Apache CXF JAX-WS implementation. We are continuing in
the spirit of modularity, as this is the second JAX-WS implementation, supported by the KumuluzEE framework, the first
one being Metro. The samples showing the usage of the new framework are already available at the
[kumuluzee-samples](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee-samples/tree/master/jax-ws/jax-ws-cxf) repository. Also check
out the previous [blog post](https://blog.kumuluz.com/product/developers/2018/05/25/jax-ws-cxf-support) to read more
about it.

Due to popular request we began implementing the mechanism that will allow activating or deactivating extensions
via configuration framework properties. The necessary support in the core framework is finished and we
will be pushing out support in each individual extension after the final 3.0.0 release. Stay tuned!

Some enhancements that support further development of extensions also made it into this prerelase. The translation
of configuration keys into environment variable names has changed to allow the `kumuluzee-config-mp` extension to align
with the latest MicroProfile Config 1.3 specification. We will still be supporting the legacy lookups, so this won't
break your existing configuration.

A new configuration property has been added to the startup configuration, which instructs Jetty to propagate any
exceptions that happen during startup. This property has little use for the end-user but aids in the development of
the KumuluzEE Arquillian Container Adapter.

Finally, the dependencies have been upgraded to their latest minor/patch versions and some minor bugs have been fixed.

For all features introduced in the 3.0.0 version before this prerelease, see the v3.0.0-beta.1 release notes in
[this](https://blog.kumuluz.com/product/announcement/developers/2018/03/11/kumuluzee-3.0.0-beta.1-release) blog post.

#### Features:

- Added support for Apache CXF JAX-WS implementation
- Added ability for extensions to specify, when they should not be initialized

#### Enhancements:

- Added environment variable lookups as defined in the MicroProfile Config 1.3 specification
- Added configuration property that enables Jetty startup exception propagation

#### Bugs:

- Added support for legacy key names in `getListSize` for environment variables
- Fixed test that fails if build path contains space

Please note that KumuluzEE v3.0.0-beta.2 is a beta release and as such it is not recommended for use in production! We
really appreciate your feedback so please report any issues and bugs for this Beta release on GitHub.

Happy testing!
