---
layout: post
title:  "KumuluzEE 3.0.0 beta 3 is released"
date:   2018-08-27
author: urbim
categories: [Product, Announcement, Developers]
tags: [KumuluzEE, Java EE, Microservices]
---

We are happy to announce the third prerelease of the KumuluzEE 3.0.0 Beta. The v3.0.0-beta.3 prerelease of KumuluzEE
framework further improves on the v3.0.0-beta.2 prerelease.

<!--more-->

This prerelease completes an important goal set for the release of KumuluzEE 3.0.0 - the support of Java 9+ in the core
framework. We have updated JAX-RS Jersey, JAX-WS CXF, JAX-WS Metro and JPA Hibernate components to support Java 9 and
Java 10 and done extensive testing on each component to ensure everything works with the latest improvements in the Java
runtime environment. Along with this update, the Jetty and JAX-WS CXF dependencies have been upgraded to the latest
versions.

We have also included some missing integrations between various components. The Bean Valdation has been integrated with
the CDI, which allows injection of `Validator` instances in CDI beans and validation of input arguments and return
values of CDI methods. Also, the JNDI now allows lookup for the JTA `UserTransaction`.

For all features introduced in the 3.0.0 version before this prerelease, see the following release notes:

- [v3.0.0-beta.1](https://blog.kumuluz.com/product/announcement/developers/2018/03/11/kumuluzee-3.0.0-beta.1-release)
- [v3.0.0-beta.2](https://blog.kumuluz.com/product/announcement/developers/2018/08/10/kumuluzee-3.0.0-beta.2-release)

#### Features:

- Added support for Java 9+ in components JAX-RS Jersey, JAX-WS CXF, JAX-WS Metro and JPA Hibernate

#### Enhancements:

- Added Bean Validation CDI integration
- Added transaction manager to JNDI
- Added Rest Client extension group

#### Bugs:

- Fixed `stopServlet` method in `JettyServletServer` throws `IllegalStateException`
- Updated Travis build

Please note that KumuluzEE v3.0.0-beta.3 is a _beta_ release and as such it is not recommended for use in production! We
really appreciate your feedback so please report any issues and bugs for this Beta release on GitHub.

If no major bugs are found, this will be the last prerelease of KumuluzEE 3.0.0 so stay tuned for the final release!

Happy testing!
