---
layout: post
title:  "KumuluzEE 2.6.0 released"
date:   2019-03-01
author: urbim
categories: [Product, Developers]
tags: [KumuluzEE, Java EE, Microservices]
---

__NOTE:__ The KumuluzEE 2.x.x releases are meant for projects still dependent on Java EE 7. If starting a new project
the usage of KumuluzEE 3.x.x is highly recommended.

We are releasing KumuluzEE version 2.6.0. This release brings the features developed in the 3.x.x branch (compliant with
Java EE 8) to the older KumuluzEE version (compliant with Java EE 7).

This release includes the support for Apache CXF JAX-WS implementation, configurable classpath scanning and MicroProfile
profiles version 1.3 and 1.4. For a more detailed change-log see the corresponding 3.x.x releases in which the features
were introduced.

<!--more-->

#### Features:

- Added MicroProfile profiles 1.3 and 1.4
- Added support for Apache CXF JAX-WS implementation.
- Added ability for extensions to specify, when they should not be initialized.
- Added support for configurable classpath scanning.

#### Enhancements:

- Sped up the classloading when using the uber JAR.
- Added Bean Validation CDI integration.
- Added transaction manager to JNDI.
- Added environment variable lookups as defined in the MicroProfile Config 1.3 specification.
- Added configuration property that enables Jetty startup exception propagation.
- Retrieve configuration value as a raw key if the parsed key is not found.
- Added support for dynamic key names with a custom prefix.
- Added support for key names containing dots.
- Added Rest Client and AMQP extension group.

#### Bugs:

- Fixed `stopServlet` method in `JettyServletServer` throws `IllegalStateException`.
- Added support for legacy key names in `getListSize` for environment variables.
- Uber JAR will now work in directories that include special characters (spaces, # ...).
- Fixed an issue when loading resources in the Uber JAR.
- Updated Travis build.

More details about this release can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee/releases/tag/v2.6.0).
