---
layout: post
title:  "Announcing KumuluzEE 3.1.0!"
date:   2019-01-28
author: urbim
categories: [Product, Announcement, Developers]
tags: [KumuluzEE, Java EE, Microservices]
---

We are announcing the availability of KumuluzEE version 3.1.0.

This release enables configurable classpath scanning and includes an updated Jetty dependency and a minor bug fix.

Configurable classpath scanning enables scanning of application dependencies in addition to the main application module.
This means that you can put JAX-RS providers and other classes that need to be scanned in any module, whereas before
these classes had to reside in the main application module or be correctly proxied in the main application module.

<!--more-->

To enable scanning of a dependency, specify it in the configuration with either its artifact name or full JAR name.
For example:

```yaml
kumuluzee:
  dev:
    scan-libraries:
      - lib-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
      - lib2
```

Another option of specifying additional dependencies that need to be scanned is through the KumuluzEE `Extension`
interface, which is especially useful for the developers of KumuluzEE extensions.

This release also includes the update of Jetty dependency to its latest version. This resolves an ASM version warning
that was previously emitted at every start of the server. The `so-linger-time` configuration parameter was also
removed, since it was deprecated.

Hibernate validator dependency was also updated, which resolved a bug where OpenJFX was included in the dependency
graph.

#### Features:

- Added support for configurable classpath scanning.

#### Enhancements:

- Updated Jetty to its latest version.
- Updated Hibernate validator to its latest version.


More details about this release can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/kumuluz/kumuluzee/releases/tag/v3.1.0).
